Okay,
guys,
And welcome back to another student.
Questions answered.
Lecture.
Now that there is a particularly interesting element in this question,
basically revolves around a project tracker on most of this is fairly static.
So what we have is a star data status Project name could be anything who the owner of the
project is.
And here is where the interesting part comes.
What we want to do from whichever cell we are in is automatically go to the commentary
column,
which is column E.
And if there is no data in there,
what we want to do is insert the current date space dash space.
Andi,
I'll come back to the interest in fast in just a second,
so that's what we want to do if it's blank if it isn't blank.
What we want to do is keep on every authority in their return a new line and then insert a
date with a space and a dash and a space.
Now,
so far,
so good.
All of those things we've already covered in the course.
But here's the interesting thing that we haven't covered in the course.
What we want to do is simulate hitting F two.
So if I took this 1st 1 here,
what I could do drag the formula bar down.
It's Olson.
Enter his holes.
Andi Coolum on hits based our space.
And there you go.
My cursor is blinking immediately where I want to start.
Type in the text on That's the interesting part.
What we want to do.
We already know how to select to sell.
But we have not yet looked at simulating the F keys.
So by hitting f to weaken automatically,
just begin type in whatever our common tree should say.
So that's what we're gonna have.
Look at in this,
like,
chap.
Now what I'm gonna do,
I'm gonna shrink the formula bar back down because that looks absolutely awful like that.
Never.
Go on.
I'm just going tab over so we can just see columns D and E.
Andi,
let me shrink.
Excel them.
Okay,
so here we go.
Here we here,
we have stamped me on that is tied to this particular sub here.
So we have two flavors we have to see.
Is there anything in the commentary section off the cell that were on on the row of the
cell that were on or is there not?
So this is just dead.
Straightforward logical tests were going to say if the range open brackets open quotes E.
It is always going to be column E because that's where the common tree lives.
But the row number is dynamic,
and that is based on whatever cell is currently selected.
So we're going to say E Andi the active cell DOT wrote and that is going to give us the row
of the currently selected cell.
So now we're going to get from whichever column where in two columns eso if Range E and the
active sold up row don't value equal nothing,
then no se else,
I'm gonna say.
And if someone if I get to do it otherwise,
OK,
so if it is blank are requirement is very straightforward.
What we want to do You say range E on the active cell row equals and we wanted to say date
Andi quotes space dash space.
So far,
so good.
Now if it isn't,
if it isn't blank,
that is like this one here already has something in it.
What we want to do is say almost the same thing.
I was going to put that in.
What I can say is range E and neck to sell value dot value equals the same again.
So arrange a active seldom value equals range a active cell duck value.
In fact,
I'm gonna put the underscore where we're gonna put that over here equals going to school.
So range E active value equals whenever is currently in there on d V would be be new line.
That's essentially the VB control at the VB command for bolt and enter and whips Plot stuff
.
Andi the date.
So let me just put that on the new line as well.
So if it's blank,
just insert the date on the space.
That space,
if it isn't blank then return more is ever currently in their Onda new line on the space
dash space.
So it's just test that out.
So they go,
we can see that that's been out there.
And if I'm over here and I hit stamp me the new dates Al it in here now.
So far,
so good.
We've successfully managed Teoh,
I'm gonna have to go in delete all that nowhere to go way go.
So so far so good.
Now we can select the cell eso what we could say.
Let's just copy that again.
So we want that there.
And at the very end,
we want to be able to select set whips and I havent finished,
so dot select and hit Enter on.
No,
If I'm over here and they hits,
that's a poor example.
Will need to be is in this one so I can hit stamp me a little on our date in there,
But still,
we don't have that blinking cursor.
We know we can get it by pressing F two on a keyboard in Excel,
but it's what we wanted to do is do that automatically encode.
So what we're going to do after we've selected here is we're going to use something we
haven't seen before,
and that is called the application.
Send keys.
Now here's a word of warning.
If you test this code in the visual basic editor,
when you use applications,
send keys.
It will assume the send keys is relating to the visual basic editor on DNA not to excel.
So when you test the code in the VB,
it won't work correctly.
But when you test the code in Excel.
It will.
When you've done this,
just have a look and you'll see exactly what I mean.
So what we have to do with application saying keys is we're going to hit quotes.
We're going to hit curly brackets on.
What we want to simulate is F two ongoing close curly brackets,
and we're gonna closed quotes on DNA.
Now look what happens over here.
If I am on this cell,
let me move.
Ever.
If I'm on this,
only it stumped me.
A new date is automatically added on Our curse is immediately they're allowing us to carry
on typing.
But if I am,
um,
let's use the same cell again,
cause now we have something in there.
Now if we clicked it,
it immediately goes as New line and again puts Akerson at the insurgent point on on an eso
and literally let me this cut this code works.
Now I'll ram that whips.
I'll run that before you download it.
Just drag this out and collapse.
That's up so I can be here,
say,
for argument sake,
I'm here in cell.
A five hit the button and automatically a new line has been led to the bottom of their
snake and happily type my commentary in Andi.
I could be here and hit it and automatically I could just start typing my commentary and
and that's how you do it.
So applications send keys.
That's the way to simulate the keyboard shortcuts,
the F keys and a bunch of others using your code in VB A.
Okay,
Hope you enjoyed that.
Ondas.
Always any questions.
Just let me know and I'll be happy to help.
Have a great day.